- Hi! I'm Abby, I work for Mozilla Foundation as the Lead Developer for the Mozilla Science Lab
- and today we'll be talking about Open Canvas!
- Which is a tool to help you get started on you Open Source project.
- So this is actually remixed from Lean Canvas, which is used in the startup world to
- make a one page business plan.
- So we remixed this with the assumption that you'll be working with the community
- to build your project openly.
- So a lot of time in open source you are working with builders
- people who want to build fast and it's important to be able to step back
- and think about what you're doing, why you're doing it and how you'll measure success.
- So the canvas, Open Canvas, is a nice lightweight to do this. It's quick to fill out
- there's not a lot of room, so you don't have to write a tonne and it's portable
- you can bring it with you and easily share your ideas with others
- So let's take a quick look at the Canvas.
- So if you scroll down, here is some explanitory text.
- So right away, in that problem solution key metrics, you can write down the problem you're trying to solve
- how you're going to solve it and what you'll measure in order to know you're succeeding.
- Then right underneith that in the green project execution box that helps
- you with your project sustainability. So as you are starting your project it's a good idea
- to sit down and think about the kind of work that you'll need to get this done.
- So that way you can map this out to the contributors in the box on the right.
- So you'll have all the kinds of contrubitors you need to get your project done.
- and then finally, the Canvas helps you work openly.
- So if you're thinking about ways outsiders can become insiders, the user channel and
- contributor channel, on the right hand side, will help you plan pathways for others to get involved.
- So that's it! Get started! All you need to is print this off, get a pen fill it out.
- Enjoy!